wait have you yeah okay
welcome everyone to this week's ipl the
sync meeting is november the 13th
2020 and as every week we go over this
stuff that we've worked on in the past
week
and discuss any open agenda items today
we even have an agenda item
that's good but i start with myself so
not that much ipld but kind of so i was
working on
a storage system for quality addressable
data um
currently the main purpose is filecoin
but it's really generally for
calling adjustable data therefore
relevant to ipld
um yeah it's still a prototype it's not
finished
um you can't even get data currently you
can only put data
but this is the next step um and yeah so
it could be looks pretty promising
if you run it on a huge machine with 700
gigabytes of ram
it works this was amazing like
it's it's fun to open those machines um
yeah but
yeah probably more of this uh in the
coming weeks or so
um but if anyone is interested it's
written rust and you can
i've put the link in there and yeah
feel free to check it out um
next on the list is danielle
cool so i released go multicodec the tag
that
i spoke about last week um so actually
when releasing that i run into a bug
where the go proxy on some database
which are like a central place where you
can download
go modules then source code and so on
they kept giving me
weird errors for like half an hour and
turns out a couple of other people at pl
ran into the same issue
months ago so i raised my shop stream
about that um
it's kind of like that tv show where you
try to fix one thing and then you find
another thing that's broken and then you
find another thing that's broken and
then it's like a chain of
why is everything broken when i tried to
touch it anyway uh that was frustrating
and i'm just replacing the old code that
inlines the constants as i go
with this library uh we also i also
spoke to eric and we planned a bunch of
ipld prime releases so the tltr is that
we're going to do 0.6
this week and then 0.7 is going to
include a bunch of
backwards and compatible changes that
we've talked about for a while
and we also reviewed emerged some stuff
that has been
uh flying for a past few weeks and what
i've been doing for the last couple of
days has been figuring out how to
automate some of the
larger low-level changes such as making
the ass
foo like the as boolean as string and so
on methods
not returner because that's an easy
enough change to make in the interface
but it's going to touch you know
hundreds or thousands of lines of code
and doing that manually is just horrible
so
um i've tried a couple of tools they
didn't work and i think i i know i
figured out a way to do it
and i also spoke to adeen on slack
because he raised a good point about
um you can do a little bit of trickery
in go with a single line where you
index into a map and also assert that to
be a certain type
and both things can also return a
boolean and if you do both things at
once it can be confused
confusing which boolean you're getting
if you think about it hard
it's kind of obvious that it's a second
one but if you just skim the code
quickly it can be confusing
and go ipfs we found like four different
bugs
because somebody confused the semantics
of this boolean
so we spoke about it for a while that's
the threat of the slack and i
drafted a proposal for the go language
to try to restrict
the sort of hackery of doing both things
at once in a single expression
i reckon it's going to be rejected
because it feels kind of
not sure about it but at the same time
if people keep getting the semantics
wrong
and it's a confusing corner case of the
language it might be worth
restricting i don't know i'll probably
raise it next week
so if anybody has any feedback it's
welcome
and also my second priority for quarter
four
was writing a ci best practices document
for go
and i thought it could be upstreamed
because it's sort of generic it's not
just about pl
the problem is it sort of stalled
upstream because i waited for a month
for their technical writer to respond to
me and he just didn't
and then when somebody else finally
responded to me they said
well we don't know where this document
could go so just stick it into the wiki
and the wiki is the github wiki which is
horrible
the reason being that you know you can
post a page there but anybody can edit
it
and the only thing i can do is subscribe
to changes and if and if anybody like
you know spams it or deletes my content
i have to like
then go back and you know revert that
and it's really annoying
so i don't know what i'm going to do i
might just publish this as a pl document
after all
and that is it for me
thanks um next one is
michael well yeah so
thanksgiving was last week so it was a
pretty short week um
but i did i got a little fed up um
i was debugging cadb and realizing that
the way that i implemented the tree
is just like the abstractions like
aren't in the right place um
to debug it well and it's like a total
mess so i did
my third implementation of these trees
oh which are now called chunky trees by
the way makola
just isn't comfortable naming things
after him so they're called chunky trees
now and not nickel trees
um so i did a third implementation of
these trees now with the intention of
the base having it be like a base
abstract kind of type
system a little bit like for the trees
um
so that i can implement cadb on it or
any ipld trees
and so i feel d trees are sort of like
they're basically um
they're using like the base classes
anyway
if you look at the implementation that
makes a lot more sense than what i'm
saying um but then with that library
i've now implemented a cid set
a sparse array an ordered map and
a database index um they all work
really well um and yeah the the tree is
really holding up
um like we can just kind of crank out
these data structures now
um on these chunky trees and just vary
just vary some of the key types and
other stuff so it's actually really
really nice
um so that's looking really really
promising and really good
these trees are fantastic um
also like just having the implementation
this kind of clean and abstract it
allows you to just like bring
the branching factor way down and really
kind of control where things are so that
you can then
write tests that cause the right merges
and things like that in a really
predictable way
um when i was trying to sort of debug
these things and write nice tests for
them
um in a in a kind of fully materialized
data structure on top of it
um it's just too unpredictable because
of all of the hashing randomness so you
don't know when you're going to hit some
of these cases when you're not then you
change like a tiny implementation detail
and all of a sudden
none of that stuff works anymore it
doesn't do what it used to do so
um it's all just like a lot nicer now
and uh yeah this is for me
i don't know who's next the next one is
eric
i'm having one of those trying to
remember what i did all week
weeks um so one of the big things is
i've been trying to work on a document
that accumulates some known goals
for the new year so we can have those
written down someplace and
maybe start circulating around anyone
else who wants to be aligned on that
scale of planning
trying to look ahead an entire year is
probably
you know we can try and we will try but
it will be an imperfect document that
i'm sure will
we will make many smaller more local in
time plans throughout the year as well
anyway so there's a link to a document
there for this
um it's full of a lot of brain dump from
me but it could
improve by having more brain dump from
other people too
so i'd love some review on that
um i think daniel already took kind of
most of the wind out of my sails and
discussing that we're planning
some new releases for the go i peel the
prime stuff um
did some merges already i'm going to be
doing a few more this week basically
trying to
wrap up and nail down anything that
could move
and then we want to tag one version
coming up very shortly
which will be a minimal breaking changes
almost nothing should surprise anyone
when they jump to this
and then as soon as we get that safe
checkpoint then we're going to move
ahead and do a bunch of api changes that
are going to require manual intervention
for somebody to upgrade across them
and we're going to try to get a bunch of
these done really quickly within a month
at least and um
these basically all have the goal of
usability improvements to the core
interfaces that we figured out from
just more use over time and the feedback
we've gotten from integration so far
for example one of the big ones being
using our node interface
the thing that kind of feels like an ast
it is
uh it's costly because a bunch of the
read methods all return a value or an
error and that means that you can't
chain those calls
so syntactically it's just kind of a big
pain in the butt it's um
it's the best of go code it has if error
branches on almost every alternate line
nobody likes that what a surprise
so we're going to try to trim down some
things like that but those will be
breaking api changes by necessity so
we're going to try to do them all in a
small window as possible and then move
on
and hopefully anyone starting to
interact with this library by the time
of the new year
we'll get the new improved experience of
less errors
uh yeah that's about it
next on the list is wrong
and the answer is no
who is that too
to the notes in the heck pen
i'm ranting about the formatting of this
file a little bit some of the spacing
wakes me out
okay
okay um my week has just been just
um old file coin and just
swimming in data and so um
just i i've been trying to tackle the
just the issue of the volume of data
in um in far coin and in some ways i'm
coming at this
i'm coming out differently but to the
same issues that peter has been
dealing with um with the just the volume
of this stuff
almost it's just so many things break
down when you're dealing with this much
volume and
and also the fact that everything's so
small all these blocks are so tiny
and there's so many of them just to
navigate through everything and
it's not it shouldn't be surprising
because it's how
so much of the real world data is but it
um it just
makes everything hard and especially
it's not it's not a static data set
either so it's
you know it's constantly being added to
so
when you feel like you're on top of
something then there's just more stuff
to get on top of and so i've just been
writing utilities and trying to make
practical ways of dealing with this data
and also dealing with space constraints
and it's just
it's becoming frustrating um
and and yeah there's some other other
file coin relative stuff in there uh
interacting with the specs actors team
and talking about data structure shapes
and sizes and algorithms and
i think i shared uh with most of you
some of the things that i've that have
surfaced out of that about the way
the incentives driving the size and
shape of their data structures
and um
some of the feedback i've given about
that but also i it's probably worth us
discussing at some point
[Music]
just because they're trying to apply
fairly um brutish
methods of costing the
various operations with regard to apld
that are gonna you know like when you
simplify
anything in a uh in a complex system
then you end up with these things sort
of bursting out in
unexpected and and unwanted ways
um and i think we we're already seeing
some of the fruit of that but we will
continue to
unless i guess we have some
good ways of speaking about the way
the different constraints cause
different trade-offs
anyway um that's been my week and it's
just
i i don't have much to show for it
other than frustration and i'm also
really behind on my github
backlog so if there's things i haven't
responded to then
yeah i'll catch up
thanks um next is
peter
you're muted sorry
the joke was what rad said same here
so yeah basically
multiple uh requests to move this
large set of data to different parties
for different uh
tests and so on so of course i think
i finally have a
solid way forward that actually works uh
and i i just need to tweak the schema
just a little bit more
where uh the original idea was to
have the blocks accessible via uh by
some kind of
synchronous box or like you know like
the test 3 or or you know ipfs in the
picture whatever it is
the amount of blocks that we have makes
this absolutely impractical
you even with any kind of fan out
that you can do there is just not
enough there's not there are not enough
round trips in the day for you to even
pull a single state out let alone
you know something something for
analysis so
uh the version that kind of settling on
that seems to be working and we'll
actually be talking with
a little bit after this call uh on
uh how this can be integrated into
sentinel
would be a humongous postgres database
where we publish uh
that is it is sufficiently normalized
but it doesn't actually go into
like all the way into breaking down the
blocks as far as
like sent now but it does
actually maintain the relationship
between the visual blocks so actually
pull out the i parse every block before
i put it and i pull out the links and i
actually recreate the linkage within
uh within the database itself
which basically lets me do things like
exports and
other stuff
the same way like you would do by
traversing a tree but
using it with you know it uh with
recursive cts
uh which obviously is way way faster
than anything we can do
on the go side because you know we have
to unpack a block and so on and so forth
whereas if i actually
have the graph in the database it works
and moreover because all of this is
sufficiently compressible
it is practical to start publishing
a based backups of this database like
every every day or so once it is uh
working and it is
caught up like uh once uh once i started
running
back of the envelope says that it will
take eight days to actually run through
the entire chain because i cannot just
import an existing um an existing
data store i need to re-analyze every
single block and there is
a little bit more nicest so basically
for every block that comes in
i found a way to record when
in time did it happen so we also have
temporal clustering of
of blocks and so on and so forth plus
there is something
similar to file system relative so
actually
we can tell a particular block which
airbox touched it throughout
time as you know as the chain was
i was progressing which will it's not
clear
what this will allow us to do in the
future but recording this information
once and keeping it forward is virtually
free
uh so we are going to click this as well
and
you can publish a base backup of this
and then publish a streaming wall
of that write catalog
so essentially anybody who wants to get
this humongous database running
they should be able to just pull a
recent backup
from uh from ipfs
and then sync up to there
there will have to be like a series of
slaves to uh to not
jeopardize the main database but uh
if everything works correctly and it
scales
as my like initial testing shows
this will be a way to provide the data
to whoever
wants it in a very cheap and a
relatively decentralized way
so this should be solved uh
of course it doesn't you know help with
how many
like actual roles you have at these
tables and so on and so forth but you
know that's
uh that's how it is uh just you know
don't don't select star count
because can't start sorry because that
is taking
a long time uh yeah
so there is that and uh another piece of
news the ceremony
is that literally that's why i was
actually late uh
this is the first time we are doing
actual dumbo drop deals with
with the real sector with the real miner
with rio
everything um things are
going way better than i expected based
on my
previous experiences so
hopefully we will have our first sector
sealed and if it
works all correctly the power shows
where it's supposed to show
uh there is this simple simple matter of
automation at this point so uh yeah
fingers crossed it will that will go
without the hitch
and uh yeah that's my weak hybrid
wise uh what's next
um chris do you have any update
uh yeah i got validation plugged into
the
graph sync requester so that's good news
i'm moving on to adding
extensions and then responders so that's
my update
thanks um okay
so um i
have on so i have one a gender item
which is about also one of our favorite
topics about inline cds
and it came up again with the the cozy
jose's back thing and so i
had a talk with a chat with um
drell who is working on those things and
also like before
i had a talk i briefly on slack with
with eric about like in ncads and
couldn't we do schemas differently and
so on so long story short is like
it was interesting to me because like
from um like
i have encountered in inline cities from
like
implementing them in rust and stuff like
this
and see like how they kind of like can
fall apart because well they are not
fixed size
and different things so from my
perspective like it was just like
it's you shouldn't really use it because
they are not really content addressing
things but just like different types of
things
and you just should use them and i was
happy to see that you can use
schemas as a replacement perhaps for
those cases
but as i've talked with drill about it
it was
interesting to see like from an
application developers perspective
they are just super useful like so if i
wouldn't have the whole like background
of like how to implement them or
whatever
it's like it's really nice to use um
and what i ended up with is what was
interesting and this is what i kind of
like
would want to discuss or just like yeah
point out is that
um a thing that at least from my
understanding is what inline cds
also give you which you can't currently
do with pure schemas
is um that you can still
traverse the whole thing transparently
so
let's say in the in the cozy
thing or like yeah in the whatever like
in the
first in the chosen part is you have
json and the payload is clearly defined
as a cid
it could be an inline cid and it could
even import like so if you put a normal
cid in there
of course it goes to a different block
and you can just no matter which format
it is you can just
traverse it the problem at all and the
nice thing about an inline cid is that
you can even put in like cyborg for
example within your json
but you can still keep traversing it as
it would be a different block and as the
ids
transparently get resolved you can just
traverse them and you're fine
and so if you use schemas obviously your
thing will be either cid
or it will be bytes or some object or
yeah so the traversal changes so really
like your
your traversing path is different
depending on whether it's inline or not
and from an application this developer's
perspective like that's super useful if
it's just the same thing
like you just don't care you just can't
just traverse them
and that's something that i think if you
do it with a scheme and a union between
like a kind
kind of union you lose this feature kind
of
and you can see why people would like it
the traversal path isn't different when
you use
the same object if you use the same body
like if you use like the same decoded
body as the union
then it wouldn't it's the same traversal
path it doesn't change
no it's only it's only when you have
these byte values that you're talking
about
that you would have the problem yes so
so as soon as you have a different
coding you have the problem
no oh yeah yeah yeah exactly yeah yeah
yeah yeah so
switch yeah
yeah but yeah but but that is what's
happening in the dead
jose stuff right like they're switching
between codex um
and which i think is also what at least
i would like to like
kind of like advertise with ipld that
those things are possible
like the nice thing about ild is that
you can link between different things
and it
potentially just works
the linking between types becomes much
more useful when one of those types
is like the signing an encryption
container as well
which is the case for dag hosting
coaster like that that
the usefulness of that is is presented
to people in a much clearer way there
whereas like most people when they're
building an application they're like
okay i'm only going to use
dag json or i'm only going to use the xc
board they're not going to be switching
between them a lot but
if you're signing things and you're
using designing containers then it
starts to really matter
yeah so what i then also like came up
with is like so because we had a similar
discussion about
like in phi coin there's something where
you also store
um c ball as a backseat ball in a field
as
bytes which is like again like like it
isn't another question if you should do
it or not but just like
it's the case and if this for example
would then be
an inline cid which i don't propose to
do but
it would be you can you can you could
just traverse it
which is kind of nice um
so the question to me is like is like i
think it's a nice feature
like i still think like inline cid is
the wrong tool for doing it
but the question is should there be a
way in ipld
somehow to do such things
um so i feel like in lens cd is the
right
thing but that's just my view
i mean like like they're they are useful
in some cases they just like
cause a lot of weirdness in other places
yeah so yeah um yeah so have any
anyone any thoughts on this or just like
should we just flicks could be to next
week or the next meeting to see like if
anyone has like had some thoughts and
yeah and if not like just like yeah it
just came up in
this pr and i just found it interesting
to yeah think about
should this be a first-class citizen or
do we still say
er don't use them something else
it's funny to me how people who actually
did use inline cds before
were telling you this thing like about
six months ago and you're like no
i said this cannot be possibly useful
yes yeah as i said i was like i haven't
had this perspective from an
application developer perspective
basically that's i was too deep into the
details
it's not on i told you so it's just a
very funny
yeah it is it's like
yeah i think the thing that we're still
pushing back against
on on one of those threads is not like
the idea of ever using inline cids when
you think that they might be valuable
it's literally like having some auto
magic logic where
whenever you're about to encode
something and link to it you decide
based on the length whether or not it
should be inline cid
and effectively you're turning like
every link into a potential inline
value like that's where things get
really
tricky
right i think the fundamental issue that
we had with things
like inline cids is actually that it's
an example of a slightly more general
problem that we just happened to see
most of the time with the id which is
that
schemas and any of our other descriptive
techniques
are actually intentionally generic over
codecs and other choices like this
meaning they don't talk about them
because to talk about them would reduce
flexibility and utility
and that means that if somebody is
switching between different codecs or
switching other parameters of linking
like switching to an actual link versus
inline cid
then we have very little ability to
describe the switching
and that makes a lot of discussions get
much harder whenever these things appear
and we don't have entirely consistent
handling in some places like
we're still not entirely sure about this
car file thing
like stephen seems to think that they're
in the car file and peter
doesn't think so and i don't
in my view they actually shouldn't be
their own value than the car file like
like that's just a waste of space
but no i mean like they're definitely
useful in some cases i mean i i stand by
like
my original analogy which is that
they're they're data uris like they're
the same thing like you take
the value of the address and you put it
in the address you make it the address
and those work like ninety percent of
the time
like data uris work like ninety percent
like they're really useful when they do
work i use them
um but sometimes they don't work because
sometimes you need
an address to be a value type and they
don't work very well as value types and
they don't have the same guarantees
as uh as address value types so
yeah i mean i i i at one point i had
some objections around the fact that
because it's not a hash
in actual hash there are assumptions
that you might make about it that would
be problematic
um if you're trying to use the link as a
value type which is
true but i upon reflection
i don't think that it's any different
than just insecure hashing functions are
so if you're ever using a hash digest
for something that you need it to be an
actual
hash digest you need to check like the
the multi-codec anyway and or yeah check
the
the multi-hash and make sure that it's
secure hashing function
because it could not be and you could
have the same problem
so the so what what they for example
need for
a day cozy and chosey is that they
so like so inline cids
are kind of have two bytes or like two
variants more than you would need
because what you
basically need is you need an identifier
what the coding is
the length and then the data and what i
thought it like just like
i thought i had was perhaps there could
be in the future
a cid version two which
is defined in a different way so that
it's it could also be
codec length data so basically
if you for example would flip from
multihedge you would flip the
length and the hash function
not quite but just like just as an idea
that basically
or just wouldn't make sense to come up
with something that is
kind of reads like a cid but it's not a
cd
again like it's not something that i
push for or proposing it's just like
yeah the thought that um it might be a
useful concept to have something in ipod
which is just codec
length data
and then follow the schema basically
i mean you're only saving two bytes and
if we ever do another version of cid
we're gonna have to deal with like a lot
of code that just checks the first byte
and if it's not one it freaks out so um
it would just be like a huge amount of
work to support this everywhere
um just to say just to shave two bytes
so it's probably not worth it
um yeah i i also think that probably
it's not
yeah you you could have you can imagine
doing something like this
in a codec though that was very aware of
inline cds
and it just shaped bites this way
so it had its own typing token for it
and then could
could identify it so you you could you
know do this reduction and have this
type like
within a codec as a method of
compression
um and that's probably good enough
um sure should then in reverse be
illincided is more of a first-class
citizen than if we like like be like
because
like julia hey if the feeling that we
treat them like well they're there and i
can use them but like they might break
they might not break and it's like
like so yeah do we have like do we then
have plans to say okay
that's a this is a proper thing it's not
really a hash function
depending on the definition you use for
a head function
um but we're still okay with it and yeah
it's very reversible in our tools and so
on
or do we just keep saying well this
thing exists and you can use it and we
will see what happens
i mean that's also totally fine i think
we have a dock on this
inspector though yet practical in the
first place and no we don't have a dock
on this we should really get a dock on
this
um i'm not
super convinced by some of the reasoning
that we entertained earlier in this call
about
why cids are superior i think a lot of
those things are actually still just
equal
like transparent pathing will work the
same way whether there's an inline cid
or a link to another block or just an
inline
piece of additional content through a
kind of union
those are all transparent representation
pattern level
really like if it's just bytes like how
would you
no no but no no but don't don't do that
though
like like either inline the value either
inline the value
well okay if you're looking at a raw
block then it would be the same yeah
yeah
but like you just inline the value data
from the data model but but
what vulgar say saying is that when you
need to do a codec switch
but like it's often not like just decode
the data just decode the data and put
the value in
like then then you reduce the number of
codecs that need to be used like
like the only case that i see this
really being useful is this dag cose and
jose thing because you don't want to
change the format of jose and kosei
and so you just want the you just want
the the binary value which
in json is like [ __ ] base64 earl
encoded
and you just want to change the
interpretation of it to say it's a cid
and so you actually don't have an
opportunity to do a union or say it's
any other type
it just has to be one type because then
you'd have to change the format
and we don't want to change the format
we just want to change the codec
identifier
and so there you need and also
it has to be a link because it is always
going to be linking to something or
doing something else
in a different codec like almost by
definition and so
it really makes sense to use the lens
cds when you need to inline stuff there
the thing that i'm worried about though
is that if you do this with encryption
it depends on the encryption function
that you're using but you're putting
like
highly identifiable known bytes at the
beginning of the encrypted data
or at the beginning of the decryption
data so
like you can use that to break the
encryption um
i think like some algorithms i think are
are fine
and jumble things around enough where
it's not a big problem
but some of them like this is a problem
like they would need to worry about this
okay so i i can see the point of like
you probably shouldn't do a code
exchange
in an inline in if you use
you probably shouldn't change the coding
which kind of like seems pretty
reasonable for
the normal use cases okay yeah you can
see now that okay then i kind of
doesn't make a difference okay i can see
that okay
so is the is the conclusion that we
should write a document
about uh like the topic about like
inline cids and like
yeah they also kind of like also
describe like what cases
we've seen because we've seen plenty of
cases and some we say yeah that's
an okay case and some are not whatever
and
i don't know if we want to so much say
that's not okay we want to outline yeah
i agree
sorry yes yes the the surface area of
decision making is what we should be in
the business of
yes yeah yeah sorry this was just yeah
okay you can you can do this but here
are some better ways of doing it and
here's some reasons that
you may not want to do that because it
might bite you
later on
and i think that's this is really what
we're in the business of doing it's just
it's just mapping the decision space for
people so that when they come along they
can
make all those trade-offs that they they
have to make
given their system constraints
we also need to figure out what the
current car implementations do with them
um
what we are actually doing with the
united states
yeah i actually mean peter you would
know since you parsed these car files
like all the time
um are are there inline cids in the car
file as unique
entries as unique blocks no
because all of
go has this condom in a way
block store that basically does not
allow any
any identity id to go through it or be
retrieved from it
you could play you could plug
which layer you plug it into yeah yeah
yeah so like i mean because if you if
you
write the car file by traversing the
graph you're still going to get the
inline cids
in the graph um so it doesn't really
matter what the block store decided to
do because
they're values in the in the block data
uh
yes if you do this kind of traversal yes
but basically
we do the traversal from the block store
directly when we write the cards
that that's where it comes from so but
but but but what do we do
when we do the regular deal flow and you
take
you take a file and you and you traverse
it
and spin it into a car file in the
regular deal flow all right
i don't know this is actually i think
that we have opened a ticket for to
verify what the different
implementations do for this particular
case but yes we haven't
it would try and fetch it because this
this all relies on that
what is it called id wrap or something
something yeah
there's there's a just one specific
layer in lotus that deals with this
identity block uh it's
it's not notes it's everywhere ipf is
said that that's what that's what i mean
in goliath you basically have it
everywhere and every single point it's
it's inserted
and that's why you never see this stuff
leaking out
okay but but you don't have to use that
right yes i mean i mean but but in my
view like
we we should just update the car files
to not write these
and and because like it's just it's just
a waste of space and then
that's the easiest thing to keep
consistent since we know that there's
these
other rappers everywhere that just like
make them vanish so
yeah if people start writing dag kozai
or whatever this one is
in javascript and they get validated
go then we'd have different behavior
given this id rap thing
because we don't we don't consider these
identity hashes
at all in javascript as a special case
and if they're doing that you go
okay and yeah so yeah i agree spec needs
to be updated
either way to be explicit about it
so that if people are making file coin
deals and they're being validated on the
other end then yeah
and in javascript we have to do it in
the car file library because
yeah i think the only thing that we pull
from
on the other end is that links we just
get a link generator on the block data
and that returns in my csd like any
other city
in fact it also applies to what they're
expressing to
because that's how you get the stuff
across from you know
lotus to lotus oh [ __ ] that's right
oh yeah
oh no wait but in the regular deal flow
it goes
over graph sync but then they both spit
out car spikes
and then they compare the hashes on the
car files
no no not at all like if you
pull from ipfs there is no car file on
your site
right you just pull whatever
and you pull it through graph sync
so it doesn't matter what graphing does
because it's the car file that needs to
be deterministic
correct yeah i mean
is there any
huh
hmm
but yeah yeah you you're correct by the
end of the day we care about what lands
in the car file
and uh almost certainly
[Music]
i didn't see these are not written to
car processes
so hold on though
what does the client use to to calculate
competent
so the client just if the client pulls
in the data off of ipfs and then it
sends it to the other
to the miner over graph sync then they
both need to get the same compe
what is compe being generated over on
the client side if it doesn't spit out a
car file locally
uh yes for for this
the client does i mean it doesn't spit
out like well yeah
usually spit out stuff but but yeah no
now we stream it out and
come a company over the
literally the car exports
it's the same car export actually that
you have in ipfs as well
so if we have something with an inline
cid we can just see
how it looks i just don't have anything
handy right now
cool um i mean we should we should make
sure the graph sync doesn't send them
out of there
um
god that would be
i'm thinking about where these bugs
would show up though and they have an
odd way of fixing themselves because
if you ever ask for them from somewhere
you will always get them back
so like even if they're
like incongruencies between these
implementations they're not actually
going to show up anywhere
um and then what what do all our like
will you're doing indexing for car files
now and i'm doing indexing in my own way
as well
what do we do do you index the online
cids
that's the thing and then you end up
saying this cid does not exist within
this data store
whereas we're saying for other data
stores you want to return them
just return it yeah just return it i
think that i think the data store should
always just return
the data for an inline cid like it it it
may not be like
in the store but like it's in the it
doesn't mean
the whole the whole point of the inline
cid it exists in every store it is
returned by every store
every store stores it and every every
store will will put it and say yeah i
got it and everything will return with
you and say i have it
because this is yeah this is so gonna
get exploited someday
um somebody is there's going to be some
operation that we do where we where we
ask somebody else do you have this and
if they have it then we know something
about them and somebody's going to find
a way to get in like the idea
it's going to well well not really
because everybody will say
like you can ask anybody for any online
cd and they'll say i haven't
because they don't no no no it'll be
like all these cash bugs in
browsers yeah yeah yeah yeah there's
freshness information that somehow
yeah i agree it's gonna come out this is
why you block dating your eyes sometimes
yeah i i think this is kind of the
reason why i was running if we should
like yeah push for us in 90s or not
yeah but i guess also like this ship has
sailed i mean it's
they exist we have to deal with them
but i guess yeah as i said we could do a
better job at like
yeah explaining like yeah
explaining what they're good for and not
good or like what they're good for
and why you want to use them or why you
like might want to do something else
yeah and what you should do like like
documenting this conversation we just
had about
storage layers like should just return
them if
people ask for them is like a good thing
to say because i'm pretty sure that most
of our stores like don't right now
um like a lot of them and then in go
there's just like this magic layer that
goes on top of everything that makes all
of it do this
i should say in like go file coin and go
ip fast i don't think that that's in the
go i pulled these stuff
out
yeah so the so um just also the
background for
the rust stuff we currently ship as
default codes we only ship
secure cryptographically secure
hashes so therefore no identity hash
obviously because
well it's not cryptographically secure
and
yeah um wait wait wait
the identity idea is more secure than
any hash you could use
because this depends on
this no this is guaranteed to never have
a collision this is the data
you cannot collide that there is no way
oh cash
that is a very interesting way of
looking at
that entirely correct way of looking at
it
okay yeah okay that's a good point this
is a good point
that's true yes i would i would not say
that it was the most secure method
because you
do things with hashes other than just
that like
like you may be relying on the
randomness inside of the hash for
instance
like we are now doing in chunky trees
for instance yes
but that's different from it's not being
secured
that's true yeah no that's secure it may
not like
let's separate it
[Music]
it's so good regretfully secure you can
always guess it
[Laughter]
it's great yeah and did it say like
someone like in the la in the in the
ipfs meetup in munich
someone brought up that like just
mentioned in a sentence that
you could do circles with inline cities
but i couldn't think of a case where
it's actually true so has anyone
thought about that one
you know that you can basically build a
not tag but like a
cycle somehow
i put a bit of thought into it and i
couldn't think of a case but
i'm not sure if there's really like i
could like in my mind there might be a
way to kind of like
recursively kind of like have like this
like it's all the same problem as
everything else like you you have to get
the cid with a hash in there
and that will be in the body in some
mechanism of the parent and so
you you can't do it
yeah i think you can throw a pumpkin up
out and say for no information is this
possible
if it were possible for inland cities
would be possible for other cities too
for other data i mean it would it's it
is the same
thing um like there's no way to to put a
link in there
to a parent that is not a hash based
link
and so you would have to put that hash
in it and pre-calculate it and it would
you'd have to know the parents and it's
in the body of the parent
yes this is so if anyone who
wants to do a homework and spend the
weekend on uh
proof that it's not possible
i'm happy to read it um anyway um is
there any so okay it's
also like coming back to the cozy stuff
so basically we used to post a little
comment there with
mostly questions so basically we say
like
like the current days like it's they
should
just go for what we currently have
because like it's it's totally fine like
it's
it's what they have now and i've also
talked with eric briefly about it that
potentially we could still upgrade them
to kind of unions like it's not a
breaking change
so if we ever like decide that's a
better way of doing it
we could but i also think like we
shouldn't like keep blocking them on
anything like it's just like
yeah so then i will post a comment like
concluding like just writing well we've
talked about in the team you can watch
the recording blah blah blah
just through it and yeah okay
yeah i just dropped a bit of a comment
on that um
big long pr already about this too and
the migration potential
i think another thing that we could use
a lot of docs on in general in the
future is migration potentials because
we've started thinking about this in
this team and the people in this call on
a regular basis quite a bit
but it's very non-obvious to people
outside of this group i think what kind
of migrations are easy and what aren't
easy
and like it turns out that yeah if we
write something like this pr
is written and it says this is only
links
and then we want to broaden that later
to use a kind of union
i'm pretty sure that's one of like the
easiest most trivial
migrations possible because the new
schema with the kind of union will
always match
all of the old data it's great
but we should really have a document
that we can link people directly to that
explains that
yeah also
people in their efforts to bite shave
will
move towards these really thin
representations of their structs
that make certain types of unions really
really difficult
um so if you don't design for that kind
of stuff and future proof early then you
don't have any options down the line
this shaving thing is gonna come up
again like
now that i'm dealing with the far coin
data i'm just having so much more
sympathy for this inclination to bite
shave but at the same time
there's this sort of self-compounding
thing
where the bite shaving desire leads to
smaller blocks which leads to more
complex graphs which leads like it's
just
it's one of these multivariate problem
spaces it's really hard to solve for
and nobody's really doing a good job of
mapping
uh all the variables and their impact on
[Music]
um the types of graphs that are built
um and that's really that's this is our
job this is something that we should be
looking more at and being able to give
answers i was in a call last week
and i brought up this whole thing that
we kept on coming back to this cap
theorem for ipld that we've never fully
defined
and um i just couldn't pull it out of my
head on
you know i was asked about it in more
detail it's like oh yeah well
and it's just it's just so many
variables that it's complex to map them
so
i know we need to do a better job of
this i think
somehow i think also like there's a lot
of people that come
from they have experiences immutable
types and so they're thinking about
the cost of the representation and
they're not thinking about the mutation
cost because that's not like
in in their head because that's not what
they've worked with before but like
you you can't just think about the
one-time representation
of these and how many bytes you shave
you have to think about like how much of
the structure is going to
change and get orphaned as it changes
over time which is like something that
you think about a lot in database
engineering but you
don't necessarily think about the
immutable types of world well
and then the size of a cid as well is
huge
when you do like mutations of small
blocks
yeah uh so so just just i don't know if
we
i don't know where every time just just
i just raised this
um thing i brought up last week to a few
of you
but uh so in far coin they have this
mechanism
that is driving decisions around data
structure shape
um where everything's gas costed so
every operation comes you know costs gas
right and so how do you tune your data
structure so they cost less gas
like and and it's it's meant to drive
the costliness of running the chain like
it's it's meant to drive that
uh so the incentives are pushing down
that the the costliness of running a
node
because these things shouldn't be too
expensive so you don't have these
perverse structures that are
just taking up cpu and disk space but to
do that
they've it's like there's too many
variables as i've been saying
and so they've they've narrowed it down
to some important variables
and the so and a lot of it's based on
benchmarking but a lot of it is also
just
negotiation between people and other
different incentives going on
so so a lot of it gets detached from the
real world
which is it's difficult to represent the
real world it really is
um and so for these data structures
they're primarily
driven by three costs there's the cost
of a get
ipl to get i'd cost of an ipld put
and a per byte cost and the per byte
cost is really small compared to the
other two
and so they're heavily having to heavily
index on gets and puts
and so you can see what happens if if if
a get and a put
costs you a lot and you want to reduce
the number of them then you're going to
drive up your block size
and if your cost on bytes
per get input is not high enough then
that just gets bigger and bigger and so
you know with larger blocks and then
that
and then that costs you in mutation so
when you try and mutate you end up
copying these huge blocks and just
changing a small bit of them
and so that then that drives up the
amount of storage you need to store
these blocks
um but maybe that's the right decision
because maybe
storage is cheap and then dealing with
the blocks is not
but anyway that's that's what's going
into this decision making and it's just
uh it'll be nice to be able to to engage
in that conversation in a way where we
can bring
uh metrics and scientific
some measurements and tools to it sorry
peter
yeah though you're absolutely right i i
basically want to help exactly on that
that
uh not only the
measurement uh touring is not there the
measurement culture is not there either
because
like uh
there are a lot of misconceptions of
what actually lotus does and what level
of caching exists and what is acceptable
in terms of like how
much we have on disk how much we have in
intermediate vfs cache and how much we
have
in actual gold
style you know sized internal caches
uh this is being treated a little bit as
a black box by the people who are doing
the measuring which is
not the way to approach this so i i want
to question basically everybody on the
call
to not jump into
design decisions before doing the
measurement themselves kind of like
kind of like our experience with dumbo
drop that until we verified every single
thing
works and actually while the call was
running
the every single deal worked flawlessly
for
for this person so once we got
everything debugged the rest is kind of
what what's left is that i think so the
same thing with the
with the measurement uh and design like
we need to remeasure
everything at least twice to be
comfortable with the numbers so
so this is this goes back to what our
job is though because
the reason this is being it becomes a
black box is because we're talking about
it's almost obscure knowledge like when
you push it down to the block level it's
it's in a place where
most programmers just want to throw it
in the database and
ignore it like i put it there and then i
get it out of there it just goes there
and we've we've we concern ourselves
with that space and most
programmers don't want to and don't and
so
and we see that in far coin and we see
it we we will see it again and again
because most people don't care about
this stuff and we've concerned ourselves
it's sort of our job to get them to that
point too right like
like the an instruction is useful if you
can forget about it
um but then like you you know you wanted
to sign the cost of something and so you
have to actually bubble up the cost of
the abstractions in some way and
understand them and so
all of a sudden you you can't really
live in inside of any abstractions you
have to unwind everything and quantify
everything
it's quite difficult yeah so our job is
really to find that
the way of boiling down the essences of
these things
to communicate them i think i don't
think
i don't want to say that we're not doing
a good job in it but
you know there's work to do here
all right we are running out of time so
is there anything
else
well then thanks everyone for attending
and see you all next week